Reusing authenticated connection when unauthenticated
=====================================================

Project curl Security Advisory, April 22 2015 -
[Permalink](https://curl.se/docs/CVE-2015-3143.html)

VULNERABILITY
-------------

libcurl keeps a pool of its last few connections around after use to
facilitate easy, convenient and completely transparent connection reuse for
applications.

When doing HTTP requests NTLM authenticated, the entire connection becomes
authenticated and not just the specific HTTP request which is otherwise how
HTTP works. This makes NTLM special and a subject for special treatment in the
code. With NTLM, once the connection is authenticated, no further
authentication is necessary until the connection gets closed.

libcurl's connection reuse logic selects an existing connection for reuse
when asked to do a request, and when asked to use NTLM libcurl have to pick a
connection with matching credentials only.

If a connection was first setup and used for an NTLM HTTP request with a
specific set of credentials, that same connection could later wrongly get
reused in a subsequent HTTP request that was made to the same host - but
without having any credentials set! Since an NTLM connection was already
authenticated due to how NTLM works, the subsequent request could then get
sent over the wrong connection appearing as the initial user.

This problem is very similar to the previous problem known as
[CVE-2014-0015](https://curl.se/docs/CVE-2014-0015.html). The main difference
this time is that the subsequent request that wrongly reuse a connection does
not ask for NTLM authentication.

INFO
----

This flaw can also affect the curl command line tool if a similar operation
series is made with that.

The Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE) project has assigned the name
CVE-2015-3143 to this issue.

CWE-305: Authentication Bypass by Primary Weakness

Severity: Medium

AFFECTED VERSIONS
-----------------

- Affected versions: from libcurl 7.10.6 to and including 7.41.0
- Not affected versions: libcurl < 7.10.6 and libcurl >= 7.42.0

libcurl is used by many applications, but not always advertised as such!

SOLUTION
------------

libcurl 7.42.0 makes sure that a connection that is reused also have to have
a matching set of credentials if it would reuse a connection already using
NTLM.

- Fixed-in: https://github.com/curl/curl/commit/31be461c6b659312100c47be6dd

RECOMMENDATIONS
---------------

We suggest you take one of the following actions immediately, in order of
preference:

A - Upgrade to curl and libcurl 7.42.0

B - Apply the patch and rebuild libcurl

C - Avoid using NTLM with libcurl

TIMELINE
---------

It was first reported to the curl project on February 24 2015. We contacted
distros@openwall on April 16th.

libcurl 7.42.0 was released on April 22 2015, coordinated with the
publication of this advisory.

CREDITS
-------

- Reported-by: Paras Sethia
- Patched-by: Daniel Stenberg

Thanks a lot!
