Bogus report filed by anonymous
===============================

Project curl Security Dismissal, August 26 2023 -
[Permalink](https://curl.se/docs/CVE-2020-19909.html)

VULNERABILITY
-------------

None. CVE-2020-19909 was filed and made public by an anonymous person due to
incompetence or malice. We cannot say which and the distinction does not
matter to us.

The original description says:

"Integer overflow vulnerability in tool_operate.c in curl 7.65.2 via crafted
value as the retry delay."

REJECTION DENIED
----------------

We requested MITRE to reject the CVE on the basis that it is not a security
vulnerability. MITRE, in their infinite wisdom, denied the rejection with the
following motivation:

*"After review there are multiple perspectives on whether the issue
information is helpful to consumers of the CVE List, our current preference is
in the direction of keeping the CVE ID assignment. There is a valid weakness
(integer overflow) that can lead to a valid security impact (denial of
service, based on retrying network traffic much more often than is
documented/requested). The record has been flagged as DISPUTED and the views
have been recorded as a NOTE in the record as well. This request will now be
closed."*

INFO
----

CVE-2020-19909 was filed on August 22 2023. Its existence was reported to us
on August 25.

The issue was [initially reported to the curl security
team](https://hackerone.com/reports/661847) and determined **not a security
vulnerability**, on July 27 2019. It was determined to be a "plain bug".

The [bug was fixed](https://github.com/curl/curl/pull/4166) on July 29, 2019.

The bugfix was shipped in curl 7.66.0. Released on September 11, 2019.

AFFECTED VERSIONS
-----------------

It does not affect any version. It is not a security problem. It was a bug
that we fixed in mid 2019.

SOLUTION
------------

Relax. Use curl as usual.

RECOMMENDATIONS
--------------

Do not blindly trust the CVE system. It is full of cracks and bogus reports
such as CVE-2020-19909.

TIMELINE
--------

This CVE was made public on August 22 2023. We were notified about it on
August 25. Daniel wrote an [explanatory blog
post](https://daniel.haxx.se/blog/2023/08/26/cve-2020-19909-is-everything-that-is-wrong-with-cves/)
early August 26.

CREDITS
-------

- Reported-by: Samuel Henrique

Thanks a lot!
