Bogus report filed by anonymous
===============================

Project curl Security Dismissal, January 30 2024 -
[Permalink](https://curl.se/docs/CVE-2023-52071.html)

VULNERABILITY
-------------

None. CVE-2023-52071 was filed and made public by an anonymous person due to
incompetence or malice. We cannot say which and the distinction does not
matter to us.

The original description said:

`tiny-curl-8_4_0`, `curl-8_4_0` and `curl-8_5_0` were discovered to contain an
off-by-one out-of-bounds array index via the component `tool_cb_wrt`.

INFO
----

CVE-2023-52071 was published on January 30 2024. Its existence was reported to
us the same day.

The CVE references a git commit that fixes an assert. The assert itself
accesses a stack based buffer one byte out of boundary. This code is only
included in debug builds and never in release-builds. Even in debug builds it
is not a security problem.

The referenced bug was introduced in [a
commit](https://github.com/curl/curl/commit/af3f4e419b9f3397) done on April 4
2023 (shipped in 8.3.0), later fixed again in [a
commit](https://github.com/curl/curl/commit/73980f9ace6c7577e7) merged on
September 13 2023 (shipped in 8.4.0).

AFFECTED VERSIONS
-----------------

It does not affect any version. It is not a security problem. It was a bug
that we fixed in September 2023.

SOLUTION
------------

Relax. Use curl as usual.

The curl security team first tried to get this CVE rejected. The MITRE system
unfortunately makes that impossible. We can only make this CVE get marked
**DISPUTED**, which we are not satisfied with but have to accept under
protest.

In spite of that, MITRE eventually (after the email below), changed status for
this CVE to **REJECTED** anyway.

EXPLANATION
-----------

First we of course think that the "burden of proof" would be on the person
that insists that there is a problem. The one saying that this is a CVE should
provide the necessary details to explain "beyond reasonable doubt" that the
identified problem is a vulnerability. There are no such details or
explanations provided in the existing CVE. There is nothing there that
identifies a vulnerability.

I am convinced someone just grepped commit messages for this and submitted a
CVE and there was nothing and no one that even tried to confirm or check that
this was actually legitimate. There was no filter in place and it was
incorrectly let through. That is why it should be rejected. Saying it is
"disputed" hints that there can be different views on this subject.

So, you are asking me to explain how this not identified vulnerability is
actually not identifying a vulnerability.

Let me try:

The claimed issue identifies a bug in curl that

 1. only existed in debug-builds (thus disqualified)

 2. even in debug-builds, a bad access does at worst cause a crash, which is
    also what the assert itself does when triggered. Thus having the same end
    result. Not a vulnerability.

 3. in most situations, the bad access does not cause any problems at all,
    even in debug-builds (because the accessed stack memory is readable)

My claims can easily be verified and double-checked by simply reading the
code. It is not complicated.

 / Daniel

RECOMMENDATIONS
--------------

Do not blindly trust the CVE system. It is full of cracks and bogus reports
such as CVE-2023-52071.

TIMELINE
--------

This CVE was made public on January 30 2024. We were notified about it on
January 30.

CREDITS
-------

- Reported-by: Mauro Matteo Cascella (reported the existence of this CVE)

Thanks a lot!
